Sean Bruno
ECE 531 - Summer 2004
HW: NIST Summary

NIST 800-145 defines the essential characteristics, service models, and four
deployment models for the term Cloud Computing.

The essential characteristics of a Cloud Computing platform consists of:

On-demand Self Service such that a customer can instantiate and work on systems
when it is convient for them.

Broad Network Access such that and service deployed to the Cloud Computing
platform is available from most of, if not all of, the Internet.

Resource Pooling so that the Cloud Computing platform abstracts hardware
resources away from the customer such that shared storage, memory and cpu are
not readily apparent to the end user.

Rapid Elasticity to allows dynamic or threshold based scaling of services
dependant on demand.

Measured Service to allow users and platform operators to properly scale
the environment to tailor performance to specific requirements.

NIST defines the following Service Models for Cloud Computing that characterize
three different levels of abstraction and configuration:

Software as a Service (SaaS): Simply running the customer's software without
allowing for any control of the underlying hardware. Typically this software 
comes in a default configuration and is deployed with a limited amount of 
changes for the customer. Many commercial software packages can be purchased
in this configuration.

Platform as a Service (PaaS):  End user creates and deploys custom software
that is deployed without knowledge of underlying hardware.  Custom webapps and
software are the most commond type of PaaS deployments.

Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS): End user picks the hardware specifications
and operating system, configures memory, storage and CPU. Total control is on
the customer and they administer this as though it were a real system.

Finally, NIST defines the Deployment Models to characterize how the cloud 
platform is provisioned to support its user base.

Private Cloud models restrict access to resources to a single organization's use.
No shared storage or networking here.

Community Cloud models restrict access and use to groups that share a common 
resource or goal.

Public Cloud is a free for all.  This is the typical model that most customers use
in Amazon EC2, Google Cloud and Microsoft Azure.

Hybrid Cloud is a combination of any of these three models.
